The text reminds us
of using our financial means
to make friends with Jehovah and Jesus.
And even though Jehovah owns everything,
seeing us giving and making sacrifices
makes him happy.
The result is a close relationship,
or (in the words of our Scripture text)
we become “friends.”
Now, this important principle
was known by the men of old.
David, for example, was one of them,
and he was very much interested
in having a close relationship with Jehovah.
Now, in 2 Samuel chapter 24,
we find David in a very difficult situation
because of his own major mistake
—he has lost Jehovah’s favor.
Now, what would he do in order to reestablish
this close friendship with Jehovah?
After repenting from his sin and being faced
with the consequences of his wrongdoing,
he was told to build “an altar
on the threshing floor of Araunah.”
Let us see how David reacted
when Araunah wanted to give
this place to David as a gift.
We read at 2 Samuel chapter 24,
and verse 24:
“However, the king [David] said to Araunah:
“‘No, I must buy it from you for a price.
“‘I will not offer up to Jehovah my God
“burnt sacrifices that cost me nothing.’
“So David bought the threshing floor
and the cattle for 50 silver shekels.”
True, it was repentance and obedience
that paved the way
for David to reestablish his friendship
with Jehovah.
However, as we just read, David understood
that giving from his own material possessions
—or, in the words of our Scripture text
from today, “from his unrighteous riches”—
would make Jehovah happy.
David wanted to give at a cost.
Now, how are we imitating David
in this regard?
Let us look at some ways how we do this
as individuals, as a congregation,
and as a global organization.
How do we use our financial means
to “make friends” in heaven?
Let us first talk
about how we do this as individuals.
Many of us are being guided
by a Bible principle
found in 1 Corinthians 16.
Here the apostle Paul
talks about a collection
that likely involved money.
The congregation in Corinth was encouraged
to help the Judean Christians.
So, what principles did Paul establish
in this connection?
This is 1 Corinthians 16;
we’ll read verse 2:
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means,
so that collections will not take place
when I arrive.”
Paul recommended that each Christian
in Corinth make it a priority
to set something aside
to donate to those in need.
So the principle is to plan our spending
to make giving a part of it.
And this is what we can observe:
Despite the fact
that special full-time servants
have very limited financial means,
many plan their giving.
Many have established
recurring donations on the website
for the congregation
and for the organization
for the Kingdom interests worldwide.
In this way, we do not need
to think about it every month,
but we might only reconsider it
once in a while
to see whether our giving
is still in line with our overall budget.
Thank you so much
for what you do in this regard!
And can you see how Jehovah, your Friend,
loves you for doing this?
Now, what do we do as a congregation
in order to use our funds
to make friends in heaven?
We know from the monthly accounts report
that all available funds are being used
for supporting Kingdom interests.
Covering the monthly expenses
of the congregation is part of it.
However, in addition to it,
the congregations are applying a principle
found in 2 Corinthians chapter 8.
The apostle Paul referred here
to the collection we read about earlier,
and he emphasized the reason
for this collection.
Now let’s read 2 Corinthians chapter 8,
verses 13 and 14:
“For I do not want to make it easy
for others, but difficult for you;
“but that by means of an equalizing,
“your surplus at the present time
might offset their need,
“so that their surplus might also
“offset your deficiency,
that there may be an equalizing.”
So the congregation in Corinth
was encouraged
to use their financial means
to support others who were in need.
This principle of equalizing
is something we find in the congregation
—for example, when it comes to donating
for the Kingdom Hall
and Assembly Hall programs.
You might remember that once a year
the body of elders recommends
a resolution to the congregation
for contributing to the building
and maintenance
of Kingdom Halls and Assembly Halls.
Why?
For at least two reasons.
First, the congregations themselves
benefit from the Local
Design/Construction arrangement.
That is why, for example,
a nearby congregation
who just benefited from this arrangement
by remodeling their Kingdom Hall
increased their monthly contribution
to the program.
But then there’s this second reason
in line with the principle that we just read:
It is an expression of love
for our brothers in other countries.
As a congregation, we want to give.
We want to make sacrifices
to support the building and maintenance
of these places of worship
in other countries,
making sacrifices
in support of those who are in need.
The congregation does not just want to give
the leftovers, so to speak,
but supports the arrangement wholeheartedly.
And all the brothers and sisters
who are benefiting from this giving spirit
say thank you,
and Jehovah blesses the congregation.
Now, finally, how do we
as a global organization
use financial means
in order to make friends in heaven?
First of all, the Scriptural arrangement
has been put in place
that the Governing Body is entrusted
with decision-making
on how to use the financial means
of the organization.
And the funds are exclusively used
for our purposes,
which is our religious purposes.
Now, let’s look at one
of the many Bible principles
that apply in using these funds.
Let us, please, turn to Matthew chapter 10.
It was Jesus who gave this instruction
to his disciples
here in Matthew chapter 10.
Let’s read verse 8.
He said: “Cure the sick, raise up the dead,
make lepers clean, expel demons.”
And now the principle:
“You received free, give free.”
Now, did the apostles follow this directive?
Yes.
And they even continued when Jesus died.
And now the organization does the very same.
We are not selling
our Bibles and publications;
we are not expecting or asking
for admission fees
to our meetings and conventions,
and we are not even having
fundraising events.
But then we see that, for example, in 2018,
the organization spent
214 million (U.S.) dollars
in supporting the circuit overseers,
the missionaries, and the special pioneers.
And then think about the fact
that during the same time,
20,331 Bethelites
served at the various branches.
And we all got our modest allowance,
and we all have something to eat.
And then we see that the branch facilities
need to be maintained
and have been maintained.
Well, think about the “relief ministry.”
In addition to the voluntary work
of so many brothers and sisters
and in addition to their personal funds
that they spend in order to help,
the organization spends millions
on the relief ministry.
So our activity as a global organization
is not performed in order to make
financial profit
but in order to fulfill our assignment
that Jesus gave.
So in this way, whether we look at it
as from the perspective of an individual,
of the congregation,
or of the global organization,
let us continue to give from what we have.
Let us continue to make sacrifices,
and we will be happy with having
Jehovah and Jesus as our Friends.